Markov-modulated linear regression (MMLR) was firstly proposed by professor Alexander Andronov. This model is a special case of the Markov additive process (Y, J), where component J is called Markov, and component Y is additive and described by a linear regression. The component J is a continuous-time homogeneous irreducible Markov chain with the known transition intensities between the states. Usually this Markov component is called the external environment or background process. Unknown regression coefficients depend on external environment state, but regressors remain constant.

Markov-switching regression models or regime switching regression models share the same idea of varying the regression parameters randomly in accordance with external environment. However, these models have significant differences in terms of the analytical approach. Namely, MMLR describes the external environment as a continuous-time homogeneous irreducible Markov chain with known parameters. On the other hand, switching models consider Markov chain as unobservable and estimation procedure involves estimation of transition matrix.

The developed scripts can be applied to analyse statistical properties of MMLR model’s estimator based on simulated data. The examples below consider the influence of the sample parameters (e.g., sample size and distribution of the initial data), as well the influence of estimation method details (e.g., different weight matrices in OLS) on the consistency of model estimates.
